meanwhile veteran Israeli Minister
Gideon s has resigned from Benjamin
netanyahu's emergency Unity government
Mr s said he'd taken the decision after
he was not included in the highest level
War cabinet he was one of several
opposition lawmakers who joined the
unity government to help manage the war
in Gaza after hamas's October 7 terror
attack let's get more on this from
journalist Samy sakol in Jerusalem uh
welcome back Sammy will Ben in Netanyahu
regard losing Gideon sa as
significant yeah I mean for him it shows
that he doesn't have control over the uh
political theater he tried by various
means to convince Gideon SAR to be an
observer in this war cabinet he he told
him that he would be able to come every
once in a while uh and attend the
meetings of this war cabinet but gon was
adamant that he has to be a full member
in this war cabinet and this would have
caused a great problem for the
government because if gon sah would have
been a member of this cabinet
thenar Ben and and smotri the Finance
Minister who both belong belong to the
far right they said that they would also
want to be members of this uh War
cabinet uh so he could not accept this
Demand by gon sa okay but talk us
through the timing because the war
cabinet was established uh months ago
why is Gideon sa only resigning now for
not being
included okay so gon s historically he
was a member of the liud party
uh he holds a
rightwing uh positions uh as an example
he opposes any involvement of the
Palestinian Authority in ruling the Gaza
striet in the day after he is against uh
trucks bringing in food to the Gaza
Strip uh so he has this position that
the Israeli right and the far right
support which is starving the people in
the Gaza Strip and he's trying to
disassociate himself from Benny gun he
ran together with him in an attempt to
topple Netanyahu in the previous
elections and he's already thinking
about the the day after in the next
elections so he doesn't want to be
together with Benny Gans and he rather
would like to establish what he already
said would be a right-wing party that
would not be under Netanyahu so he's
he's trying to carve his way through
Israeli politics and there those who
believe that the Israeli public has been
shifting to the right but nevertheless
is going against netan because of his
responsibility for the 7th of October
Fiasco so there is room for these kind
of right-wing politicians to get support
from okay so we have Gideon SAR a member
of leud um Mr netanyahu's own party
leaving his government are we St do you
think that this will be the only
resignation I wonder if we're starting
to see the splintering of this this
Coalition that's been held together by
by just the the meest of
things no and gonar is not going to
topple this government he's just saying
that currently he's a minister without
portfolio in the government uh which
means that he doesn't have much impact
on anything and the decision making is
not being made in the government so
rather he says that he wants to step
aside it doesn't mean that he will vote
against the the government or that he
will try to topple the government uh By
Any Means uh he's just uh trying to kind
of build his Niche within Israeli
politics looking at the day of the
elections okay that's very clear thank
you for talking us to that Sammy Sami
sakl in
Jerusalem